_drafts/2020-12-18-weekly-blog-2020-51.markdown, before:

---
layout: post
title: "Weekly development blog 2020-51"
date: "2020-12-18T23:41:56+00:00"
categories: weekly
---

## `.gitignore` for Unity

Currently all the cache files produced by Unity are tracked by git, because we did not have a proper `.gitignore` file for Unity. This resulted in thousands of changes seen in `git status` and the vscode git panel, and if developers blindly commit everything this could easily led to merge conflicts, which is undesirable. Hence, we downloaded the GitHub's [official gitignore file for Unity](https://github.com/github/gitignore/blob/master/Unity.gitignore). We also did a `git ls-files -i --exclude-standard | xargs git rm --cached` to remove all the existing committed garbage files.

## Project management

NTT Data instructed us to manage the project tasks in their Microsoft Teams team via the Plan App. We roughly sorted this out earlier together with Brandon, and this week we will begin using it for our first set of tasks. Here is a peak of what it looks like:

<a href="/assets/images/ms-team-plan-peak.png"><img src="/assets/images/ms-team-plan-peak.png" style="max-width: 100%; display: block; margin: 10px auto;"></a>

Our tasks this weeks are: (done concurrently by 3 people)

- Better video player animation
- Weather background
- Menu screen

## Video player slide in animation

Because I have never done any unity development before, naturally I spent some time learning how to properly control animations in Unity. I decided that I would use a [Animator](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/class-Animator.html) - a common Unity component that allows you to write your animation triggering logic in terms of a state machine:

<img src="/assets/images/unity-animator-state-machine.png" class="center">

A video demo for the animation I made:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/m-lBv1Xaueo" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Commit message:

updated blog post with weather section

_drafts/2020-12-18-weekly-blog-2020-51.markdown, after:

---
layout: post
title: "Weekly development blog 2020-51"
date: "2020-12-18T23:41:56+00:00"
categories: weekly
---

## `.gitignore` for Unity

Currently all the cache files produced by Unity are tracked by git, because we did not have a proper `.gitignore` file for Unity. This resulted in thousands of changes seen in `git status` and the vscode git panel, and if developers blindly commit everything this could easily led to merge conflicts, which is undesirable. Hence, we downloaded the GitHub's [official gitignore file for Unity](https://github.com/github/gitignore/blob/master/Unity.gitignore). We also did a `git ls-files -i --exclude-standard | xargs git rm --cached` to remove all the existing committed garbage files.

## Project management

NTT Data instructed us to manage the project tasks in their Microsoft Teams team via the Plan App. We roughly sorted this out earlier together with Brandon, and this week we will begin using it for our first set of tasks. Here is a peak of what it looks like:

<a href="/assets/images/ms-team-plan-peak.png"><img src="/assets/images/ms-team-plan-peak.png" style="max-width: 100%; display: block; margin: 10px auto;"></a>

Our tasks this weeks are (done concurrently by 3 people):

- Better video player animation
- Weather background
- Menu screen

## Video player slide in animation

Because I have never done any unity development before, naturally I spent some time learning how to properly control animations in Unity. I decided that I would use a [Animator](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/class-Animator.html) - a common Unity component that allows you to write your animation triggering logic in terms of a state machine:

<img src="/assets/images/unity-animator-state-machine.png" class="center">

A video demo for the animation I made:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/m-lBv1Xaueo" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Changing background to reflect the weather

For this to work, I had to research how to receive information from APIs in Unity and I found that I could use [UnityWebRequest](https://docs.unity3d.com/ScriptReference/Networking.UnityWebRequest.html). I then had to find a weather API to use. Originally I decided to use [WeatherAPI](https://www.weatherapi.com/) as I could get realtime weather of a location specified but I later found that the weather information was too complex for our needs with many different types of [weather conditions](https://www.weatherapi.com/docs/weather_conditions.json) that also changed depending on whether it is day or night. I found [OpenWeatherMap](https://openweathermap.org/) to more suitable as its [weather conditions](https://openweathermap.org/weather-conditions) all have a "main" weather name. To clarify in WeatherAPI, for clouds the weather name could be "partly cloudy" or "cloudy" but in OpenWeatherMap they would both be classified as "Clouds".

Following this, I had to research how to only extract the required information from the JSON received from the API. From what I researched, in Unity you can define a class that essentially represents the JSON as an object then use [JsonUtility.FromJson](https://docs.unity3d.com/ScriptReference/JsonUtility.FromJson.html) to create the object. Although this seemed extremely long considering the JSON from the API contained lots of information. I found an open source plugin called [SimpleJSON](https://github.com/Bunny83/SimpleJSON) which allowed me to just extract the weather from the JSON. Currently, the Virtual Assistant simply prints the weather to the console as shown:

<img src="/assets/images/weather-console-log.png" class="center"></a>

Following this I will need to implement a response from Unity which will require me to create new skyboxes and figure out how to change them depending on the weather condition.
